CODEBOOK
========================================================

This document describes the variables in the tidied dataset generated by the analysis function in this repository.

__References__

1. R reference documentation on make.names
2. "features_info.txt"" included with the original dataset
3. README.md in this repository

# Transformation done on original data using run_analysis()
The following has been done to achieve the tidied dataset:

1. Process names of the variables
    + Names of the variables are read from the file "features.txt"
    + Names are sanitized to replace the characters "(" ,")" and "-" (Refer to R reference documentation on make.names for definition on valid names)
    + Names are converted to lowercase
2. Process test Dataset
    + Read list of subject id from "subject_test.txt"
    + Read list of activity id from "y_test.txt"
    + Read list of data from "X_test.txt" and replace with headers from #1
    + Concatenate subject id, activity id and data together
    + Extract only the mean and standard deviation measurements for each subject id and activity id.
        + NOTE: Referring to "features_info.txt", **only** the following variables are considered as mean and standard deviation measurements
            + mean()
            + std()
3. Process train Dataset
    + Repeat the same steps for test Dataset on the train Dataset and corresponding files.
4. Processed datasets from #2 and #3 are combined.
5. The required data is then extracted
    + Read in activity names from "activity_labels.txt"
    + Merge activity names with the combined dataset from #4
    + "Activity ID" variable is then removed
5. Tidied data is derived from #5 by performing the following
    + Required data is aggregated and grouped by subject id and activity name. The aggreate function is the average i.e. arithmetic mean
    + duplicate subject id and activity name variables resulting from the aggregation is removed
    + activity names in the oberservations are converted to lowercase
    + data variable names are appened with "average_"
6. Tidied data is saved to TXT and CSV files
    
    

# Codebook
The below tables describes the variables in the tidied data files. Table 1 describes an example on how to intepret data variable names and Table 2 describes the full list of variables in the tidied dataset.

Data Variables are interpreted by the values in between the underscores. An example is provided below.

The only non-data variables are "subject_id" and "activity_name", which is used for grouping.

__Table 1: Illustration of interpreting variable names__

Example: average_tbodyacc_mean_x

Label       | Interpretation
------------|---------------
average     | This means that the value you see is the average of all the sampled values for a given variable.
            |    * Possible Values:
            |        - There is only one type of measurement: Average
tbodyacc    | This means body acceleration signal value in time domain.
            | The first character denotes the domain of the value
            |   * Possible values:
            |       - 't' - denotes time domain signal
            |       - 'f' - denotes frequency domain signals
            | The remain characters describes the type of feature the value represents
            |   * Possible values:
            |       - bodyacc: body acceleration signal
            |       - gravityacc: gravity acceleration signal
            |       - bodyaccjerk: body acceleration signal
            |       - bodygyrojerk: body gyroscope jerk
            |       - bodyaccmag: body acceleration jerk
            |       - gravityaccmag: gravity acceleration magnitude
            |       - bodyaccjerkmag: body acceleration jerk magnitude
            |       - bodygyromag: body gyroscope magnitude
            |       - bodygyrojerkmag: body gyroscope jerk magnitude
mean        | This refers to the measure type of the value
            |   * Possible values:
            |       - mean: arithmetic mean
            |       - std: standard deviation
x           | This represents the 3-axial direction of the value. This interpretation may not be present in all variables
            |   * Possible values:
            |       - x: x-direction
            |       - y: y-direction
            |       - z: z-direction
